IN THE
ASSAM STATE CONSUMER DISPUTES REDRESSAL COMMISSION AT GUWAHATI

FIRST APPEAL NO. 06 OF 2019

1. Coca Cola India Ltd. having its Office at
Phase-V, Vanijanmi Kunj, Ankay Towers
Udyog Vihar, Gurgaon-122016
2. Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages
Dihang Arcade, ABC-GS Road
Guwahati, Dist- Kamrup (Assam)
3. Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages
A.T. Raod, Jorhat-785006
. Appellants
-Versus-
1. Ms. Deepali Sharma, D/o Lt. Sree Prasad Sharma
R/o Paltan Bazaar, Guwahati
2. M/s Swastik Distributor, 3, International Hospital
Complex, R.G. Baruah Road, Guwahati-78 1005
Dist- Kamrup, Assam
4. M/s Food Doof, MC. Road, Baruwari
Guwahati, Dist- Kamrup, Assam
.... Respondents.
For the appellant: Mr. A. K. Sahewalla, Advocate
For the Respondent No. 2: Mr. P. Mahanta, Advocate
For the Respondent Nos. 1 & 3: None appeared
Date of Hearing: 15-05-2023
Date of Judgment (0:08 '2023
BEFORE
THE HON’BLE PRESIDENT MR. JUSTICE PRASANTA KUMAR DEKA
THE HON’BLE MEMBER MRS. SONEKA BORA, AJS (RETD.)
THE HON’BLE MEMBER MR. TAPAS KUMAR GHOSH
(yw

JUDGMENT (CAV)

BY MRS. SONEKA BORA, MEMBER

Heard Mr. A. K. Sahewala, learned counsel, appearing for the appellant. Also heard Mr.
P. Mahanta, learned counsel, for the respondent No.2. However, there was no representation on
behalf of respondent Nos. 1] and 3.
2. This appeal is directed against the judgment and order dated 16-11-2018 passed by the
learned District Commission, Kamrup, at Guwahati, in C.C. Case No. 76/2009 whereby the
learned Commission below directed the opposite party Nos. 1,2, 3 and 5 to pay Rs. 50,000/- as
compensation to the complainant.
3; Being highly aggrieved and dissatisfied with the judgment and order, the opposite party
Nos. 1,2 and 3 as appellants have preferred this appeal on the grounds mentioned in the appeal
memo.
4, The complainant's case as embedded in the complaint petition is that the opposite party
No. 1 is a multinational company, carrying the business of manufacturing and selling beverages,
namely, Coca-Cola, Thumps Up, Sprite, Limca, Fanta ete and the opposite party No. 2 is the
branch office of opposite party No. 1. Opposite Party No. 3 is the manufacturer of beverages
and the opposite party No. 4 is the distributor appointed by the opposite party No. 1. Opposite
party No. 5 is a restaurant and retailer of opposite party No. 1 at Guwahati. On 22-07-2009,
the complainant went to opposite party No. 5 restaurant in the evening hours to have some light
refreshment and purchased one bottle of Sprite (RGD) from the opposite party No. 5. The bottle
was served to her without opening the sealed cover and when she attempted to open the bottle
with a bottle opener she saw a dead fly inside bottle and then she immediately informed the

matter to the owner of the restaurant and the brother of the owner of opposite party No. 5
informed one of the officials of opposite party No. 2 company over phone. The opposite party
No. 2 assured to send official on the next day and asked to give her another bottle and to keep
the bottle with the dead fly at the restaurant. But the complainant being enraged by their
response took away the bottle with her to home without opening the bottle. On the next day the
complainant went to opposite party No. 5 restaurant again to meet the official of the opposite
party No. 2 but they failed to give any concrete reason as to why that had happened rather
tried to convince the complainant that the bottle might have been tempered. On the date of
purchasing the bottle the complainant suffered from convulsion like feeling, mental and physical
agony which continued till the date of filing of the complaint. The alleged product which is a
product of reputed company, are consumed by majority of people so the manufacturer should
take responsibility to maintain quality standard and make it hazard free, but the manufacturer
failed to maintain so the opposite party caused deficiency of service also caused mental
and physical harassment to the complainant. Hence this case for compensation.

5. The pleadings of the opposite parties is that the case is filed by the complainant
fabricating a story which is totally misconceived. The complainant is not a consumer in respect of
the said bottle as the complainant has no evidence that she got the said bottle on payment of
consideration. The complainant failed to mention the batch number and other details of the
products purchased by her. It is highly improbable that the restaurant took Rs. 15/- as the price
of the bottle is only Rs. 10/-.

é. In the joint written statement of the opposite party Nos. 1,2 and 3 respectively stated that
the complainant had not suffered any physical injury due to the purchase of the imputed bottle.
This version of the opposite party Nos. 1,2 and 3 is clear admission of the plea of the

complainant regarding the incident on the relevant date.
~~

rc The learned Commission below rightly held that the said admission of the opposite party
Nos. 1, 2 and 3 proves the plea of the complainant. The opposite party has not applied in the
Commission below for analysing the contents of the bottle. In such a situation for non examination
of the contents of the bottle it is not fatal to the case of the complainant.

8. After going through the evidence on record it is found that the complainant did not
consume the sprite bottle after seeing a dead fly inside the bottle. Though the opposite party
Nos. 1,2 and 3 admitted that on the date of incident the complainant visited the restaurant on 22-
07-2009 and purchased a bottle of sprite and when she tried to open the bottle she saw a dead
fly in the bottle. But the complainant had not suffered any physical injury owning to the purchased
of the bottle. She has not narrated how she suffered mental agony since she had not consumed
the same.

9. The learned Commission below after considering the facts and evidence on record
allowed the complaint and directed the opposite parties to pay Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees fifty
thousand) with 12% interest to the complainant.

10. In the result the judgment and order passed by the learned Commission below is upheld to
the extent of deficiency of service of the appellants. But we are of the opinion that Rs. 50,000/-
and 12% interest are on higher side. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, we are
of the opinion that it will be just and proper if we modify the compensation amount. So we,
granted Rs. 5000/- (Rupees five thousand) to the complainant instead of Rs. 50,000/- as
compensation in total. The opposite parties are directed to pay Rs. 5000/- to the complainant
with interest at the rate of 6% per annum. The amount shall be deposited by the appellants to the
respondent No. 1 within a period of 4 (four) weeks from today before the learned Commission

below.
11. Statutory amount of Rs. 25,000/- deposited by the appellant at the time of filing the

appeal, shall be returned to the appellant or their authorized agent on proper identification.
[2 Send back the LCR along with a copy of this judgment to the learned Commission below,
Kamrup at Guwahati.

( AN
Tu” ty be

MEMBER MEMBER PRESIDENT
